# DE-variants

n this project we address the routing, coding, and spectrum allocation (RCSA) Problem, which is a combining of the classic routing and spectrum assignment (RSA) problem and the Codec Assignment (CA) problem in Elastic Optical Networks (EON). The coding consists in the addition of redundant bits to the information data transmission in such a way that it ensures the error correction of received data. The greater the transmission distance, increases the error probability and therefore it will be necessary to increase the number of redundant bits to improve robustness. In consequence, the RCSA is a complex problem and its approach is crucial to EON networks. In this work, two RCSA strategies have been develped and implemented: an exact solution based on Linear Programming Integer (ILP), and a family of five meta-heuristics known as Differential Evolutionary (DE) algorithms. In this context, the main contribution of this work are: the ILP-RCSA model and the DE-RCSA algorithms. Experimental results indicate that ILP-RCSA is much more efficient than meta-heuristics for low traffic loads. However, ILP-RCSA becomes computationally infeasible for high traffic loads. On the other hand, the DE-RCSA algorithms are able to calculate good solutions with high loads in reasonable computational times. A trade-off between quality and computational time in ILP-RCSA approach is observed. For other hand, the DE-RCSA strategies are scalable for higher instances. This result is congruent with the fact that RCSA is an NP-hard problem. In the DE-RCSA approches, no performance was observed significantly better than some particular algorithm over the rest. However, the quality of DE-RCSA solutions are relatively close to those of the ILP-RCSA, thus showing good performance. In addition, it is noted that the DE-RCSA find feasible solutions of good quality in all scenarios in the established computational time.
